Readme.markdown, before:

# SSPullToRefresh

There are dozens of pull to refresh views. I've never found one I'm happy with. I always end up customizing one, so I decided to write one that's highly customizable. You can just write you view and forget about the actual pull to refresh details.

If you're using SSPullToRefresh in your application, add it to [the list](https://github.com/soffes/sspulltorefresh/wiki/Applications).


## Example Usage

``` objective-c
- (void)viewDidLoad {
   [super viewDidLoad];
   self.pullToRefreshView = [[SSPullToRefreshView alloc] initWithScrollView:self.tableView delegate:self];
}

- (void)viewDidUnload {
   [super viewDidUnload];
   self.pullToRefreshView = nil;
}

- (void)refresh {
   [self.pullToRefreshView startLoading];
   // Load data...
   [self.pullToRefreshView finishLoading];
}

- (void)pullToRefreshViewDidStartLoading:(SSPullToRefreshView *)view {
   [self refresh];
}
```

I generally make a property called `loading` in my view controller and just set that to `YES` inside refresh. Then in my custom setter, return if it's already `YES`. When it changes states, it will call `startLoading` and make the network call. Then when the network activity finishes, it will set it to `NO` and the customer setter handles calling `finishLoading` and doing whatever else.

The fine folks at [NSScreencast](http://nsscreencast.com) have an excellent episode on SSPullToRefresh and even implementing a custom content view with Core Graphics. [Check it out](http://nsscreencast.com/episodes/24-pull-to-refresh).


## Customizing

SSPullToRefresh view is highly customizable. All of the pulling logic, animations, etc are wrapped up for you in SSPullToRefreshView. It doesn't have any UI. Its `contentView` handles displaying the UI. By default, it sets up an instance of [`SSSimplePullToRefreshContentView`](https://github.com/samsoffes/sspulltorefresh/blob/master/SSSimplePullToRefreshContentView.h) as the `contentView`.

### Provided Content Views

[SSPullToRefreshDefaultContentView](https://github.com/samsoffes/sspulltorefresh/blob/master/SSPullToRefreshDefaultContentView.h) and [SSPullToRefreshSimpleContentView](https://github.com/samsoffes/sspulltorefresh/blob/master/SSPullToRefreshSimpleContentView.h) are provided by SSPullToRefresh. By default `SSPullToRefreshDefaultContentView` is used if you do not provide a content view. To use the provided simple content view, simply set it:

``` objective-c
pullToRefreshView.contentView = [[SSPullToRefreshSimpleContentView alloc] initWithFrame:CGRectZero];
```

### Custom Content Views

You can simply subclass `SSPullToRefreshDefaultContentView` or implement your own view that conforms to `SSPullToRefreshContentView`. You must implement the following method:

``` objective-c
- (void)setState:(SSPullToRefreshViewState)state withPullToRefreshView:(SSPullToRefreshView *)view
```
This method will get called whenever the state changes. Here are the possible states. It is recommended to implement UI for most of the states, but you can do whatever you want.

* `SSPullToRefreshViewStateNormal` (*recommended*) — Most will say "Pull to refresh" in this state
* `SSPullToRefreshViewStateReady` (*recommended*) — Most will say "Release to refresh" in this state
* `SSPullToRefreshViewStateLoading` (*recommended*) — The view is loading
* `SSPullToRefreshViewStateClosing` (*optional*) — The view has finished loading and is animating closed

You may also optionally implement this method:

``` objective-c
- (void)setLastUpdatedAt:(NSDate *)date withPullToRefreshView:(SSPullToRefreshView *)view
```


## Adding To Your Project

[Download](https://github.com/samsoffes/sspulltorefresh/zipball/master) the source files or add it as a [git submodule](http://schacon.github.com/git/user-manual.html#submodules). Here's how to add it as a submodule:

    $ cd YourProject
    $ git submodule add https://github.com/samsoffes/sspulltorefresh.git Vendor/SSPullToRefresh

Add all of the Objective-C files to your project.

SSPullToRefresh uses [Automatic Reference Counting (ARC)](http://clang.llvm.org/docs/AutomaticReferenceCounting.html). (I think [you should use ARC](http://blog.samsoff.es/automatic-reference-counting) by the way.) If your project doesn't use ARC, you will need to set the `-fobjc-arc` compiler flag on all of the SSPullToRefresh source files. To do this in Xcode, go to your active target and select the "Build Phases" tab. In the "Compiler Flags" column, set `-fobjc-arc` for each of the SSPullToRefresh source files.

### CocoaPods

If you are using [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org) than just add next line to your `Podfile`:

``` ruby
pod 'SSPullToRefresh'
```

Now run `pod install` to install the dependency.


## Thanks

I took some inspiration from [PullToRefreshView by chpwn](https://github.com/chpwn/PullToRefreshView), which is based on [EGOTableViewPullRefresh](https://github.com/enormego/EGOTableViewPullRefresh), which is inspired by Tweetie's pull to refresh by [Loren Brichter](http://twitter.com/lorenb). And around we go.

Enjoy.

Commit message:

new properties and methods added + readme update

Readme.markdown, after:

# Fork Features
`expanded:` method added to `SSPullToRefreshContentView`
``` objective-c
/**
 - FORK FEATURE
 Will be called whenever the pull to refresh view is being expanded. 
 This call was build mainly to allow for contentView updates when being expanded
 DO NOT Confuse with setPullProgress: as this method passes in the exact height of expansion
 */
- (void)expanded:(CGFloat)height;
```

`loadingStateHeight:` property added to `SSPullToRefreshView`
``` objective-c
/**
 - FORK FEATURE
 The height of the loading expanded content view. The default is `70.0`.
 
 This is different than `expandedHeight` in that this is the height of the contentView
 when in the `loading` state after the contentView has already expanded 
 
 @see expandedHeight
 */
@property (nonatomic, assign) CGFloat loadingStateHeight;
```

# SSPullToRefresh

There are dozens of pull to refresh views. I've never found one I'm happy with. I always end up customizing one, so I decided to write one that's highly customizable. You can just write you view and forget about the actual pull to refresh details.

If you're using SSPullToRefresh in your application, add it to [the list](https://github.com/soffes/sspulltorefresh/wiki/Applications).


## Example Usage

``` objective-c
- (void)viewDidLoad {
   [super viewDidLoad];
   self.pullToRefreshView = [[SSPullToRefreshView alloc] initWithScrollView:self.tableView delegate:self];
}

- (void)viewDidUnload {
   [super viewDidUnload];
   self.pullToRefreshView = nil;
}

- (void)refresh {
   [self.pullToRefreshView startLoading];
   // Load data...
   [self.pullToRefreshView finishLoading];
}

- (void)pullToRefreshViewDidStartLoading:(SSPullToRefreshView *)view {
   [self refresh];
}
```

I generally make a property called `loading` in my view controller and just set that to `YES` inside refresh. Then in my custom setter, return if it's already `YES`. When it changes states, it will call `startLoading` and make the network call. Then when the network activity finishes, it will set it to `NO` and the customer setter handles calling `finishLoading` and doing whatever else.

The fine folks at [NSScreencast](http://nsscreencast.com) have an excellent episode on SSPullToRefresh and even implementing a custom content view with Core Graphics. [Check it out](http://nsscreencast.com/episodes/24-pull-to-refresh).


## Customizing

SSPullToRefresh view is highly customizable. All of the pulling logic, animations, etc are wrapped up for you in SSPullToRefreshView. It doesn't have any UI. Its `contentView` handles displaying the UI. By default, it sets up an instance of [`SSSimplePullToRefreshContentView`](https://github.com/samsoffes/sspulltorefresh/blob/master/SSSimplePullToRefreshContentView.h) as the `contentView`.

### Provided Content Views

[SSPullToRefreshDefaultContentView](https://github.com/samsoffes/sspulltorefresh/blob/master/SSPullToRefreshDefaultContentView.h) and [SSPullToRefreshSimpleContentView](https://github.com/samsoffes/sspulltorefresh/blob/master/SSPullToRefreshSimpleContentView.h) are provided by SSPullToRefresh. By default `SSPullToRefreshDefaultContentView` is used if you do not provide a content view. To use the provided simple content view, simply set it:

``` objective-c
pullToRefreshView.contentView = [[SSPullToRefreshSimpleContentView alloc] initWithFrame:CGRectZero];
```

### Custom Content Views

You can simply subclass `SSPullToRefreshDefaultContentView` or implement your own view that conforms to `SSPullToRefreshContentView`. You must implement the following method:

``` objective-c
- (void)setState:(SSPullToRefreshViewState)state withPullToRefreshView:(SSPullToRefreshView *)view
```
This method will get called whenever the state changes. Here are the possible states. It is recommended to implement UI for most of the states, but you can do whatever you want.

* `SSPullToRefreshViewStateNormal` (*recommended*) — Most will say "Pull to refresh" in this state
* `SSPullToRefreshViewStateReady` (*recommended*) — Most will say "Release to refresh" in this state
* `SSPullToRefreshViewStateLoading` (*recommended*) — The view is loading
* `SSPullToRefreshViewStateClosing` (*optional*) — The view has finished loading and is animating closed

You may also optionally implement this method:

``` objective-c
- (void)setLastUpdatedAt:(NSDate *)date withPullToRefreshView:(SSPullToRefreshView *)view
```


## Adding To Your Project

[Download](https://github.com/samsoffes/sspulltorefresh/zipball/master) the source files or add it as a [git submodule](http://schacon.github.com/git/user-manual.html#submodules). Here's how to add it as a submodule:

    $ cd YourProject
    $ git submodule add https://github.com/samsoffes/sspulltorefresh.git Vendor/SSPullToRefresh

Add all of the Objective-C files to your project.

SSPullToRefresh uses [Automatic Reference Counting (ARC)](http://clang.llvm.org/docs/AutomaticReferenceCounting.html). (I think [you should use ARC](http://blog.samsoff.es/automatic-reference-counting) by the way.) If your project doesn't use ARC, you will need to set the `-fobjc-arc` compiler flag on all of the SSPullToRefresh source files. To do this in Xcode, go to your active target and select the "Build Phases" tab. In the "Compiler Flags" column, set `-fobjc-arc` for each of the SSPullToRefresh source files.

### CocoaPods

If you are using [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org) than just add next line to your `Podfile`:

``` ruby
pod 'SSPullToRefresh'
```

Now run `pod install` to install the dependency.


## Thanks

I took some inspiration from [PullToRefreshView by chpwn](https://github.com/chpwn/PullToRefreshView), which is based on [EGOTableViewPullRefresh](https://github.com/enormego/EGOTableViewPullRefresh), which is inspired by Tweetie's pull to refresh by [Loren Brichter](http://twitter.com/lorenb). And around we go.

Enjoy.
